Assassin's Creed Odyssey sets players on a grand adventure through an Ancient Greece rich with culture, conflict, and consequences. To compose the soundtrack for this open-world epic adventure, Ubisoft sought the talents of a duo called The Flight (Joe Henson and Alexis Smith). The two men have a strong pedigree that includes composing numerous high-profile video game soundtracks, and we got a chance to ask them about their process for scoring Assassin's Creed Odyssey.


What's your approach to creating music for a game of this size? What are some of your first priorities, for example?

With today's technology anything is possible so our first priority is to apply a set of rules. We try to pin down what we are trying to achieve with the score, and how we are going to do that, keeping the sound unique and exciting, yet consistent through the many hours of gameplay.

Our first step on this path with Odyssey was researching the historical and geographical setting, and this gave us an ‘in' as to how we wanted it to sound: Ancient Greek in flavor and feeling whilst still being a contemporary score.

Is there an overriding theme you were trying to capture or create with the soundtrack? A particular feeling you wanted to evoke with it?

Assassin's Creed Odyssey is about family, betrayal and war; it's a proper Greek tragedy. We wanted the music to reflect that, to be able to go from tender and tragic, human and fragile to full-on epic battle.



In between moments of grand adventure, there are quiet times when players are in transit or appreciating views or not on the attack. How did you approach these mellower moments?

We actually enjoy these moments the most, where silence and spaces are as important as the notes. We liked to start these pieces by playing live, the two of us plus our collaborator Mike Georgiades picking up instruments and playing together. By the time we were a few months in, we could channel the Ancient Greeks through our badly-tuned ancient instruments!

When working with a big open-world game like this, is it important to give different regions distinctive musical textures? What kinds of things did you want the music to reflect?